	Financial statements can be very useful resources when it comes to investing in any individual company. This is due to the fact that a company's financial statements act as a scorecard for that company, and can help an investor determine whether or not they are making a smart investment choice. Also, by understanding the rules imposed on companies concerning financial statements, as well as the ratios that can be derived from these statements, an investor can greatly increase their chances of making a safe and smart investment.

	In order to get a good idea about the state of a company's finances, it is important for an investor to look at the company's balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements. Balance sheets show what a company owes and what it owns at a specific time, income statements show the profit and loss of a company over a period of time, and cash flow statemets show the actual flow of money in and out of a company over a period of time. From these statements an investor can gather information such as how well a company has done in the past, what assets and liabillities a company currently has, and whether or not that company has been successful turning its assets into actual cash. With this information an investor can make a much more intelligent and informed decision about where they invest their money.

	In order to promote consistency and accurate reporting in financial statements, companies within the United States are required to follow the Generally Accepted Accounting Procedures, also known as the GAAP. The GAAP consists of both required rules which companies must follow, as well as commonly accepted ways of reporting financial information. It is important that these rules are imposed, because it reduces the chance of a company presenting misleading financial information to the public, which in the long run could negatively impact both investors and the greater economy. Although there are specific rules outlined in the GAAP that must be followed, there is also room for a company to get creative in exactly how they report their financial information. This is due to the fact that not every company earns and spends money in the exact same ways, therefore a company can report financial information differently in order to give the public a better understanding of the company's actual financial standing.

	When it comes to actualy using financial information to make a decision about whether or not to invest in a company, it is important to understand the different ratios that can be derived from the previously mentioned financial statements. Some examples of ratios that provide a better understanding of a company's performance and standing are; working captial ratios, price-earnings ratios, and debt-equity ratios. The working capital ratio displays a company's liquidity, which is its ability to turn assets into actual cash. The price-earnings ratio measures a company's earnings per share and reflects the investors assesment of that company's future earnings. The debt-equity ratio measures the amount of money a company is borrowing and determines whether or not that will negatively impact the future profit of the company. Using these ratios and others, investors can gain a better understanding of a specific company's financial statements which is very important when it comes to investing in stocks.

	